## How the Internet Works

Web Server
- Typically stored in data center
- Data center serves are built based on service purposes
- Website hosting, databases, CMS software, email, handle web requests etc.

HTML (hypertext markup language)

CSS (cascading stype sheets) - add visual aspects

JavaScript 

Web URL (Protocol + Domain + File Name)

Web Hosting
- Shared hosting
- Virtual private hosting
- Dedicated hosting
- Cloud hosting

## Internet Protocols

IP v4 vs. IP v6
- Transmission Control Protocol
- User Datagram Protocol

Common HTTP Methods
- Get: the client requests a resource on the web server.
- Post: The client submits data to a resource on the web server.
- Put: The client replaces a resource on the web server.
- Delete: The client deletes a resource on the web server.

HTTP Request
- Informational (100-199)
- Sucessful (200-299)
- Redirection (300-399)
- Client (400-499)
- Server (500-599)

HTTPS (Secured)

## Framework and Libraries

- Handle receiving HTTP requests

**APIs**
- Browser/Web API
- DOM API
- Geolocation API
...

RESTful API

Sensor-based API

- Use endpoints to specify how different resources can be accessed

### The Request and Response Cycle
First a user gives a client a URL, the client builds a request for information (or resources) to be generated by a server. When the server receives that request, it uses the information included in the request to build a response that contains the requested information.

- [The Request and Response Cycle](https://medium.com/@jen_strong/the-request-response-cycle-of-the-web-1b7e206e9047)


